PPDP 2020 Call For Papers
=========================

The 22nd International Symposium on
Principles and Practice of Declarative Programming, PPDP 2020,
held 8-10 September 2020 at the University of Bologna, Italy.
See: http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~abel/ppdp20/

Scope
-----

The PPDP 2020 symposium brings together researchers from the
declarative programming communities, including those working in the
functional, logic, answer-set, and constraint handling programming
paradigms. The goal is to stimulate research in the use of logical
formalisms and methods for analyzing, performing, specifying, and
reasoning about computations, including mechanisms for concurrency,
security, static analysis, and verification.

Submissions are invited on all topics related to declarative
programming, from principles to practice, from foundations to
applications. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

  - Language Design: domain-specific languages; interoperability;
    concurrency, parallelism and distribution; modules; functional
    languages; reactive languages; languages with objects; languages for
    quantum computing; languages inspired by biological and chemical
    computation; metaprogramming.

  - Declarative languages in artificial intelligence: logic programming;
    database languages; knowledge representation languages;
    probabilistic languages; differentiable languages.

  - Implementations: abstract machines; interpreters; compilation;
    compile-time and run-time optimization; memory management.

  - Foundations: types; logical frameworks; monads and effects;
    semantics.

  - Analysis and Transformation: partial evaluation; abstract
    interpretation; control flow; data flow; information flow;
    termination analysis; resource analysis; type inference and type
    checking; verification; validation; debugging; testing.

  - Tools and Applications: programming and proof environments;
    verification tools; case studies in proof assistants or interactive
    theorem provers; certification; novel applications of declarative
    programming inside and outside of CS; declarative programming
    pearls; practical experience reports and industrial application;
    education.

The PC chair will be happy to advise on the appropriateness of a topic.

PPDP will take place 8-10 September 2020 at the University of Bologna,
Italy, co-located with the 29th Int'l Symp. on Logic-Based Program
Synthesis and Transformation (LOPSTR 2019) and the Microservices
conference.

Submission Categories
---------------------

Submissions can be made in three categories: regular Research Papers,
System Descriptions, and Experience Reports.

Submissions of Research Papers must present original research which is
unpublished and not submitted elsewhere. They must not exceed 12 pages
ACM style 2-column (including figures, but excluding bibliography).
Work that already appeared in unpublished or informally
published workshop proceedings may be submitted (please contact the PC
chair in case of questions). Research papers will be judged on
originality, significance, correctness, clarity, and readability.

Submission of System Descriptions must describe a working system whose
description has not been published or submitted elsewhere. They must
not exceed 10 pages and should contain a link to a working
system. System Descriptions must be marked as such at the time of
submission and will be judged on originality, significance,
usefulness, clarity, and readability.

Submissions of Experience Reports are meant to help create a body of
published, refereed, citable evidence where declarative programming
such as functional, logic, answer-set, constraint programming, etc.,
is used in practice. They must not exceed 5 pages **including references**.
Experience Reports must be marked as such at the time
of submission and need not report original research results. They will
be judged on significance, usefulness, clarity, and readability.

Possible topics for an Experience Report include, but are not limited to:

  - insights gained from real-world projects using declarative
    programming

  - comparison of declarative programming with conventional
    programming in the context of an industrial project or a
    university curriculum

  - curricular issues encountered when using declarative programming
    in education

  - real-world constraints that created special challenges for an
    implementation of a declarative language or for declarative
    programming in general

  - novel use of declarative programming in the classroom

  - programming pearl that illustrates a nifty new data structure or
    programming technique.

Supplementary material may be provided via a link to an extended
version of the submission (recommended), or in a clearly marked appendix
beyond the above-mentioned page limits. Reviewers are not required to
study extended versions or any material beyond the respective page
limit.  Material beyond the page limit will not be included in the
final published version.

Format of a submission
----------------------

For each paper category, you must use the most recent version of the
"Current ACM Master Template" which is available at
<https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template>. The most
recent version at the time of writing is 1.70. You must use the LaTeX
sigconf proceedings template as the conference organizers are unable
to process final submissions in other formats. In case of problems with
the templates, contact
[ACM's TeX support team at Aptara](mailto:acmtexsupport@aptaracorp.com).

Authors should note [ACM's statement on author's
rights](http://authors.acm.org/) which apply to final papers.
Submitted papers should meet the requirements of [ACM's plagiarism
policy](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/plagiarism_policy).

Requirements for publication
----------------------------

At least one author of each accepted submission will be expected to
attend and present the work at the conference. The PC chair may
retract a paper that is not presented. The PC chair may also retract a
paper if complaints about the paper's correctness are raised which
cannot be resolved by the final paper deadline.

Important dates
---------------

    Title and abstract registration:  11 May  2020 (AoE)
    Paper submission:                 15 May  2020 (AoE)
    Rebuttal period (48 hours):    22-23 June 2020 (AoE)
    Author notification:               3 July 2020
    Final paper version:              24 July 2020
    Conference:                     8-10 September 2020


Organization
------------

    Program committee chair :  Andreas Abel, Gothenburg University
    General chair           :  Maurizio Gabbrielli, University of Bologna
    Steering committee chair:  James Cheney, Edinburgh University
